Hi, my name is Ryan Etheridge, and you are listening to our podcast series focused around the gospel of Christ, according to Matthew.
Today's date is Thursday, February twelfth, and our scripture focus is going to be on Matthew, Chapter thirteen, verses twenty four through forty three.
In the scene we are looking at today, Jesus is traveling with his disciples, continuing his teaching to the masses and crowds that would follow him, come to hear him.
He is most likely teaching in a town or a city that's along the border of the Sea of Galilee, based on previous and upcoming passages.
Now, before we even hear any of today's scriptures with that mind, it brings me to the first point that I want us to remember about Jesus' teaching and communication style.
He almost always teaches in the forms of parables and stories, which is firstly captivating, but then most importantly is that he.
He's going to use symbols, imagery, and context that would be easily understandable to the audience that he was speaking to. And actually in verse 30, he says,
In verse 34 of today's reading, you can see that it says, Jesus always used stories and illustrations like these when speaking to the crowds. Notice it says,
It says in the crowds. So maybe he was teaching a little differently when it was a one-to-one situation or to a small group. But to the crowds, he always used stories and illustrations.
In fact, he never spoke to them without using such parables. Verse 35.
This fulfilled what God had spoken through the prophet. I will speak to you in parables. I will explain things hidden since the creation of the world.
world.
And I believe that's referencing a verse in Psalm chapter 78, according to my Bible footnotes here.
So,
Jesus always tries to engage in a way that meets the recipient of his words, where they are in life, with respect to their background and their
and daily living conditions.
If this is the way that Jesus chooses to most effectively draw others into his teachings, then it is something that we should consider trying to adopt
to adopt into our own lives whenever we can. Whenever we engage with someone about faith, religion, or what the word teaches us to be true people,
and good.
Does that mean that you have to be the best storyteller or have some innate ability to make others laugh through the art of storytelling?
There's a few people that come to mind, but right now I'm thinking of Pastor Dudley right now. He is so good at this skill, and it's just part of his nature, right?
Do you have to have that skill in order to be like Jesus in this way?
Absolutely not.
It may help sometimes, yes, but the more important thing is to realize that whenever we try to teach others or relay our beliefs or
So, or in some way speak about God's word and impact on our life, then we need to think about where the other person is coming from, right? We need to pray.
to place ourselves in their shoes for a moment before we ever attempt to engage them on a spiritual development level.
It is so important to know your audience before you speak with them, whether it's one person or one hundred.
If you don't know that audience before you, then the first step is to get to know them.
Ask.
Listen to who they are, where they come from, and the things that they've been through in life.
Spend time with them in a real and meaningful way.
That simple step takes effort, but it shows the person or the people on the receiving end of your words that you're invested in them and that you
You care about who they truly are and their ultimate well-being on a spiritual level, right? then,
Once that relationship has formed, then we can begin a better and more effective transmission of ideas and understanding from both parties.
Parties involved.
I love how Paul writes these words in his first letter to Peter in chapter 3 verse 15.
1. He says, In your hearts, honor Christ the Lord as holy. Always be prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that you have.
We have yet, yet, yet.
Here's the kicker.
Do it with gentleness and.
Respect.
In today's selected passage, we see Jesus give a
Three different short parables. but,
All of them are related to the same topic in a way which is the Kingdom of Heaven, what the Kingdom of Heaven is, or how it should look like.
1.
seed in his field, but someone, an enemy, came along in the night and planted weeds among it. So his workers came to him and asked, you know, Master, what should...
Or what should we do? Someone's planted weeds with the wheat. Should we pull up everything? Should we pull up the weeds now while the wheat is still growing and the master wisely?
Or wisely says, no, if you pull up the weeds now, you'll also pull up the young roots of the wheat. So instead, let them be. And at the end, when the harvest is ready,
ready, we'll pull all of them together and we'll separate the wheat and the weeds. And of course, that is a symbolism of how we
All when Christ comes again, there will be a separation of all that is good and all that is evil in the world. Right. Those who accept Christ and those who deny Christ. That's the separation of.
Of the wheat and the weeds
Next, we read about the parable of the mustard seed. Only two verses about the parable of the mustard seed in Matthew, but that's the one that talks about
It talks about the kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed planted in a field. It is the smallest of all seeds, but it becomes the largest of garden plants.
And it grows into a tree, birds come and make nests in its branches. And so that goes, that's sort of an image of faith, right? And that, you know, even the strongest, the smallest bit of faith,
That a faith can move a mountain. And so... Yeah.
that mustard seed symbolism, most of us probably aren't familiar with a mustard tree, those aren't necessarily native to our part of the country here in Pensacola, Florida.
But the mustard seed has, it's a very, very small seed. If you come to the fridge in the youth room at church, you'll see some artwork that one of our youth did at worship arts camp. There's more.
Large branching tree.
And ideally, that's what the kingdom of heaven looks like, right? So it starts with one person planting a seed or having faith or starting an initiative. And from that, growth.
Grows a tree that is safe harbor, but also produces crops, right? produces fruit, produces something that can be passed on. it should produce.
"'New seeds that then are scattered into new hearts "'into new soil.'"
Right.
And then the third is the parable of the yeast we see starting in verse 30
3, which talks about how only a little bit of yeast is needed to absorb
permeate through every part of the dough. And of course that's probably speaking to the fact that
Are
Faith
The impact of the Holy Spirit on our life, if it's true and powerful,
then it should have a leavening effect like the yeast in that dough, I believe, right? It should raise this up. It should puff us up.
It should spread into all the parts of the dough. Maybe that's an analogy for every part of our life.
Or into every other.
the person's life that we come in contact with, right?
now.
To us living in america in the year twenty twenty six
Some of, if not most of the references we often see used in the Bible will be in regards to things that we just simply either aren't familiar with or we
Or we just aren't regularly exposed to.
Either because of advancements in science, agriculture, technology, or
Because we simply don't live in that type of a geographical region, right?
I think most of us can get a firm grasp on the symbolism and the visualization of the wheat and the weeds growing up together right if you spent any time in a garden
a garden. If not, just try it now. Just go try to plant some nice flowers in some random spot of your yard or in the woods. Without doubt, you will experience something different.
thing, unwanted, growing alongside your young flower sprouts.
But,
The symbolism of the mustard tree and the yeast working through the dough, like I said earlier, although these may be things we've seen or have worked with before in our life, right?
These would have been commonplace everyday things that were familiar with anyone living in the culture during Jesus's time.
Again,
Jesus meets people where they are in his teachings.
In a similar way,
Jesus meets us where we are
Through the power of the Holy Spirit.
Whenever we read scripture and something just
cuts like a sword or jumps off the page at us where it says, "Man, I've read this a million times, but for some reason now this is jumping off the page is something I need to pay attention to."
Attention to. Something I need to absorb for wisdom in my own life. That's the Holy Spirit working through the Word.
Jesus still meets us where we are today whenever we come to him in prayer, with our worries and our concerns and all the desires that we might.
Have.
Now, I love what we see in verse 36-43 of today's passage, where the disciples ask for further explanation regarding the
The parable of the wheat and the weeds once they are alone with him
100%. Listen to this. This is verse 36. It
Then,
"'Leaving the crowds outside, Jesus went into the house.'"
We don't necessarily know whose house, but went to the house.
His disciples said:
Please explain to us the story of the weeds in the field.
"'Jesus, I guess they were good with the mustard seed and the yeast thing. I don't know. But they asked about the wheat and the weeds. Jesus replied, "'I guess they were good with the mustard seed and the yeast thing.
The son of man is the farmer who plants the good seed.
The field is the world, and the good seed represents the people of the kingdom.
The weeds are the people who belong to the evil one.
The enemy who planted the weeds among the wheat is the devil.
The harvest is the end of the world and the harvesters are the angels
Just as the weeds are sorted out and burned in the fire, so it will be at the end of the world.
"'The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will remove from his kingdom everything that causes sin and all who do evil.'"
And the angels will throw them into the fiery furnace, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Then the righteous will shine like the sun in their father's kingdom.
Anyone with ears to ear
Anyone with ears to hear should listen and understand.
Now,
Even Jesus' disciples.
It needed further explanation on something Jesus taught.
So, what did they do?
They asked, they said, Rabbi,
Tell us more about this. explain this to us deeper. we're a little confused.
What should we do then if we are struggling with something in God's word, or struggling with something that pertains to our faith?
Should we keep it to ourselves maybe just let it slide forget about it no don't do that
Just like the disciples, we should ask, too.
Now, that can be a scary thing or an intimidating thing, particularly if you're someone who identifies as someone who's been around church for a long time or has a very well-established faith, right?
Or even if you're new to the faith or new to Christianity, right?
It's...
And it can be a humbling thing to ask, say, hey, I don't understand this part of scripture or I am struggling with this in my life. Can you help explain to me what this verse or this passage or whatever?
This word means to you.
Right?
And that is why being part of a
Solid church and being part of a faith community like we have here at Perdido Bay is really so essential. It's so essential to maintaining a healthy walk with
And it's essential to actually going deeper, advancing our faith, not just staying where we are, not just plateauing. Because we're not just...
When we have questions, right? When we have doubts, when we are uncertain or just need further guidance, right?
We have people and we have groups that we can turn to for those things in those seasons.
We are not called
To walk or live this life of faith alone, right? That is why the church, the capital C, the body of church, that's why the church exists.
So that we can be a part of a larger body that sustains one another when one part of that body is either weak or failing or needs encouragement.
encouragement.
Now,
And if you are listening to this podcast today,
And you are thinking to yourself wait a second
Do I actually have somebody I can talk to about my questions? And the answer that you come up with is, no, not really. Or maybe, yeah, I used to, but I don't anymore. Or...
No, actually, I've always been the person that other people come to with answers. Regardless, if your answer to that question is no,
Then.
I want to encourage you today to think about someone that you really trust,
Um, who, who believes who, in the Christian faith, who you could reach out to as a brother or sister in this family of Christ, right? Make a commitment.
Make a connection with someone who can help guide you in the right direction, right?
Maybe that's a friend, maybe that's someone in your small group, maybe that means you need to get plugged into a small group.
Maybe it means you come to me or Pastor Scott or Pastor Levi. We love having these conversations. That's what we're in the game for, right?
Make a connection with some one who can help guide you in the right direction, because.
Even if the disciples needed an extra explanation, right? Okay, even if the disciples needed an extra explanation,
Extra guidance, right?
Then that is certainly something that we need to do for ourselves as well.
I hope this podcast reading has been a blessing to you as it has been to me and please remember be grateful today and every day for all of us have something to be thankful for
To be thankful for.
Thank you for listening to this podcast, focused around the book of Matthew, produced by the always cool and calm, collected Kenny Stewart from the beautiful,
2022 Perdido Bay Methodist Church.
And we hope you have a great day.